8 0 beta (#10592)
qooxdoo/qooxdoo: docs/core/defining_properties.md

There are two ways to set an init value of a property.

#### Init value, calculated at class instantiation time

> The _preferred_ way for reference vaues such as objects or arrays,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The _preferred_ way for reference values such as objects or arrays,
```

which are not expected to be shared between instances of the class, is
to provide a function to the `initFunction` key in the property
configuration map. The function will be called each time the class is
instantiated, and should return the initial value for the property in
that instance. You can use this key standalone or in combination with
`nullable` and/or `inheritable`.

```javascript
properties : {
  myProperty : {
    initFunction : function() { return [ 1, 2, 4, 8 ]; }
}
```

#### Init value, calculated at class load time

The `initFunction` key can be used for all initial values. A slightly
simpler mechanism is available, however, for simple (non-reference)
values. In this case, declare them using the `init` key in the
property configuration map. You can use this key standalone or in
combination with `nullable` and/or `inheritable`.

```javascript
properties : {
  myProperty : { init : 42 },
  myOtherProperty : { initFunction : () => 42 }
}
```

#### Init value in constructor

Before the introduction of the `initFunction` key in qooxdoo version
8.0, it was necessary to initialize reference types in the

> constructor. The following remains as an available option, although it

Reviewer: ```suggestion
constructor. This can still be done, although it
```

should be rarely necessary any longer, for use in new code.

> 
> You could set the init value of the property in the constructor
> of the class. This is only recommended for cases where a declaration of an init
> value as explained above is not sufficient.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

### Applying an init value

The following applies if using the methodology describe immediately
above, in 'Init value in constructor'. It is not necessary when using
the `initFunction` key.

> 

Author: I think this is an important distinction, so I'd prefer to leave this here.

> 

Reviewer: I agree, but if someone reads this at this point they have no idea what you are talking about ...

> 

Author: lol. You and I are coming at it from different directions. My viewpoint is based on my research for my dissertation, where I learned that People Don't Read. I was evaluating how people treat error messages generated by a compiler. Even with short error messages, if there are three parts to the error (what happened, where it occurred, what you might do to fix it), people tended to read only the beginning. To have students learn from the error message and be able to correct the problem, I had to switch around the order (what you might do to fix it, where it occurred, what happened). In that way, students actually learned what they could do to correct their programs.

Anyway, that's a long story to reflect why I put important stuff out front. At least it tells them that they may not care about what's upcoming, even though they don't yet know what's upcoming. With text only appended to the end, saying they don't need to do that stuff, they're unlikely to read that far. I did, however, leave in the text you added at the end, so now they get two chances to learn that they don't need to do the stuff described in that section.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are using an `initFunction` as described above, any apply function will be called automatically.

```

### Refining init values

Derived classes can refine the init value of a property defined by
their super class. This is however the only modification which is
allowed through inheritance. To refine a property just define two keys
inside the property (re-)definition: either `init` or `initFunction`;
and `refine`. `refine` is a simple boolean flag which must be
configured to true.

> Normally properties could not be overridden. This is the reason for the `refine`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Normally properties can not be overridden. This is the reason for the `refine`
```

allocated array or object, created in the property's `initFunction`,
continues to be used, so that when a new array or object is provided
to the setter, the *values* in the original array or object are
replaced by those in the array or object passed to the setter, rather
than replacing the entire array with what's specified in the setter.
In other words, the initialized array or object becomes immutable, and
its values are replaced by those in the argument to a setter call.

## Defining own property storage

Property values are, by default, stored within the instance object of an instantiated class. The default storage mechanism is defined in `qx.core.propertystorage.Default`. 

It is possible to define an alternative storage methodology. Defining
storage requires creating a map containing four keys: `init`, `set`,
`get`, and `dereference`.

### init

A storage implementation's `init` key defines how to initialize the
property's value in its storage. The default storage implementation
uses the property's `init` value (or `undefined` if the property
doesn't define an `init` key) and stores it into the instance. The
default storage's `init` function looks something like this:

> ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```javascript
```

init(propertyName, property, clazz)
{
  // Create the storage for this property's current value
  Object.defineProperty(
    clazz.prototype,
    propertyName,
    {
      value        : property.init,
      writable     : true, // must be true for possible initFunction
      configurable : false,
      enumerable   : false
    });
}
```

### set
A storage implementation's `set` key defines how to store a value for the property in its storage. The default storage implementation stores the value within the instance object, in a property of the given name:

> ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```javascript
```

set(prop, value)
{

>   let             variant = this[`$$variant_${prop}`];

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  let variant = this[`$$variant_${prop}`];
```

  // Don't go through the whole setter process; just save the value
  this[`$$variant_${prop}`] = "immediate";
  this[prop] = value;
  this[`$$variant_${prop}`] = variant;
},
```

Note the `variant` handling. This pertains to internals of the Class
implementation. The key point here is that when
`this[`$$variant_${prop}`]` is not `immediate`, all of the property
handling such as validation, transform, etc., may occur if
`this[prop]` is changed. For optimal efficiency, the default storage implementation saves the
current variant, temporarily sets the variant to "immediate", saves
the value in its storage location, and then restores the variant.

### get

A storage implementation's `get` key defines how to retrieve the
property's value from its storage. The default storage implementation
simply retrieves the instance object's value of the given property
name:

> ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```javascript
```

get(prop)
{
  return this[prop];
}
```

### dereference

If the property configuration includes `dereference : true`, then the storage implementation's `dereference` function is called just before the instance's destructor. The default storage implementation deletes the property from the instance:

> ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```javascript
```

doesn't define an `init` key) and stores it into the instance. The
default storage's `init` function looks something like this:

```
init(propertyName, property, clazz)
{
  // Create the storage for this property's current value
  Object.defineProperty(
    clazz.prototype,
    propertyName,
    {
      value        : property.init,
      writable     : true, // must be true for possible initFunction
      configurable : false,
      enumerable   : false
    });
}
```

### set
A storage implementation's `set` key defines how to store a value for the property in its storage. The default storage implementation stores the value within the instance object, in a property of the given name:

```
set(prop, value)
{
  let             variant = this[`$$variant_${prop}`];

  // Don't go through the whole setter process; just save the value
  this[`$$variant_${prop}`] = "immediate";
  this[prop] = value;
  this[`$$variant_${prop}`] = variant;
},
```

Note the `variant` handling. This pertains to internals of the Class
implementation. The key point here is that when
`this[`$$variant_${prop}`]` is not `immediate`, all of the property
handling such as validation, transform, etc., may occur if

> `this[prop]` is changed. To ensure that no overhead of additional
> processing is incurred, the default storage implementation saves the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`this[prop]` is changed. To avoid any processing overhead, the default storage implementation saves the
```

just as a hidden private variable (e.g. `__varName`) inside your
object.

## Property Descriptors

A property descriptor contains the definition of the methods which can
manipulate and retrieve values from a property. Each of the property
methods is actually a reference to a function in the property
descriptor, so, for example, on property `myProp`, the methods
`setMyProp`, `getMyProp`, `resetMyProp`, etc., are methods held in the
property descriptor for property `myProp`.

You can access properties through the instance object to which the
properties are attached, as has been discussed throughout this
description of properites. Alternatively, though, if many property
manipulations on a given property are to be made, you may prefer to
obtain and keep a reference to the property descriptor for that
property to manipulate it, rather than manipulating it through the
instance object.

The property descriptor for a property can be obtained, through the
instance object, by calling the `getPropertyDescriptor` method, and
passing as an argument, the name of the property for which the
property descriptor is desired. For example, to obtain the property
descriptor for the property `myProp`:

> ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```javascript
```

let propDesc = myClassInstance.getPropertyDescriptor("myProp");
```

With that property descriptor in hand, you can now manipulate the
property with it, e.g.:

> ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```javascript
```
